The middle class were invented to give
the poor hope. The poor to make the rich
feel special. The rich to humble the
middle class.
Mocom moana the feudal model and the
five class
model of how social hierarchies are
displayed are the conventional ways
people think societies such as modern
America are constructed. However, that
analysis is deeply flawed for a number
of reasons. In the rest of this video,
I'm going to break down the actual class
structure, at least in my opinion, from
my analysis of American economics,
politics, and sociology.
how it actually works, how it greatly
differs from class systems in other
parts of the world, historical class
systems, and general misconceptions
about social class in the United States.
The thing to note on the American model
is the degree of competition within the
elites and those rising up which is not
seen in other countries where the status
of the elites is more stable and
monopolistic in nature. This is more a
theory not a hard fact on class
structures. This is just my analysis
through observation and studying history
and economics. Social pyramids across
societies historically
differ in significant ways and have
changed greatly over time. So the social
hierarchy in the United States in the
1950s looked a lot different than 2020s.
It will look a lot different on the
2007s. Let's start with the American
class hierarchy which was probably
similar in English colonial societies
such as Canada and Australia. However,
in the latter, it's probably less
mobile. The American class hierarchy is
not a single pyramid. It's more like two
diverging paths.
The bottom is the same, but the further
you move up, the more diversion there
is. In times of social cohesion,
the two pyramid that create the elite
and the counter elite will be closer
together, if not outright merged like
they were right after World War II. But
in times that are more politically tense
or there is more scarcity for a higher
standard of living, it widens because
there is less to go around in terms of
social status and modern privileges than
there was in the past. Let's start from
the bottom and work up from there. The
bottom is the underclass which is really
people who are dependent on the state
and work outside the formal economy.
These are the people who live on social
welfare and commit a disproportionate
amount of crime. They tend to be in
remote rural areas or inner cities. The
next level is the working class or the
procariat class. Now these are people
who work. They make enough money to
basically keep themselves alive. Maybe
with the help of debt, but don't really
have enough left over
to save or to get ahead. You can advance
out of this. And that's the thing, like
if there's a gap, it means that the
wider the gap between
each tier, the more difficult it is to
advance. So, as I see, there's a sizable
gap between the underclass and the
working class due to negative incentives
in the social welfare system and poor
habits developed from growing up in the
underclass culture. The working class
can move up if they are competent at
their job or get an education that could
earn them more money. The next level is
the middle class or the clerical class.
These are people who do corporate
administration type jobs or things that
keep the trains running on time and the
lights on in society. These range from
bureaucratic office jobs to
truck drivers to those who
do a lot of other things. But the thing
in common is that they are employees
or independent contractors that aren't
really true businesses.
that they have some disposable income,
but not enough to really ever make a
material dent to get out of working
their boring 9 to 5 job.
These people, this here tends to be the
least political also in American
society. The next level is where it
starts to split because you can either
choose to align with the establishment
elite or go your own way and protest
against the established elite. We're
going to work top down. The
establishment elite are basically the
people who
have institutional
control and privilege in society. These
could be old money, the people who run
major corporations. These are the top
ranking officials in government and
politicians in the inner party, which is
the faction within American politics
that has dominant cultural institutional
control. They are also anybody who's
gotten wealthy through the establishment
or being supported by it. The thing in
common with them all is that they have
been successful
through either being entitled to that
through class inheritance or
institutional inheritance through being
related to powerful families in the
past. or they got there through their
relationships with these people
being beholden to their interests and
then adopting their values and becoming
part of the pie. That's why you see for
example that these people all tend to
share the same cultural values even if
they come from technically different
backgrounds because it's a go along to
get along type culture.
usually have to be an established elite.
You got to gone to the right
universities or have the right social
circles
or be a talent that is recognized early
by this group and trained by them like a
lot of celebrities are. The next tier
below that is call them the Ivy League
class. What differs the Ivy League class
from the establishment elites is that
the Ivy League class still has to work
for a living while the establishment
elite do not. You can have people of
higher incomes in the Ivy League class
than the establishment elite, but the
established elite either have enough
generational wealth or institutional
credibility. They don't need to work
constantly to maintain their wealth and
lifestyle. That's what differentiates
the elites from the classes in the
American class hierarchy. Both the elite
and the counter elite have enough money
that they do not have to work and do not
experience lack. If you are somebody
super frugal and saved a million dollar
and retires,
but you still have to live off of
$40,000 a year, which is your 4%
interest, and budget on that, you're not
elite. You're just somebody who saved a
lot and fortunately was able to retire
and keep their cost down.
The true elites are people who can live
the lavish lifestyles
of the wealthiest suburbs of America and
not have to work uh independently
wealthy whether through their own means
or through connections.
Is through connections and playing the
game of the people who the political
class want you to. It's part of the
reason why a lot of these people adopt a
lot of the same social views to go along
to get along game.
Whereas
the Ivy League class are people who are
working to become part of the
establishment elite. A lot of them won't
ever make it there. But these people
went to Ivy League universities.
They tend to be very intelligent but
they also tend to be very conforming.
They want to be part of the
establishment elite. These are high
level corporate executives, a lot of
lawyers, a lot of doctors,
academics, elite universities. These
people will make well over $100,000 a
year. And they feel like they are on
their way to becoming the establishment
elite. Hit this group the hardest
because they're W2 employees and have
high income. So they don't really have
the advantages of business owners on the
tax side and they also have the high
expectations of living a certain
lifestyle. So they can't really break
through to save enough to become the
establishment elite. It takes a lot more
money to live a $200,000 a year
lifestyle or $400,000 a year lifestyle
without having to work. If you have a 4%
interest rate, that's the $10 million
you need in assets. And it's very
difficult to save $10 million
before you turn 70 on a $250,000 a year
job. There are ways you can do it and
you can break into the establishment
elite or your salary goes high enough by
just moving up the pyramid, but this is
extremely competitive. The Ivy League
class is an accomplishment itself
because less than 1% of college students
can get into the Ivy League or similar
prestigious university. These people
differentiate themselves through their
quality of education and their ability
to buy into the establishment elites or
have a very high work ethic but maybe
not necessarily a high level of critical
thinking or even if they do a
willingness to challenge the system or
take risks. The left is the safer path.
The right side is the riskier path.
The institutional
professional class is the next level
below the Ivy League class did not go to
Ivy League institutions and they lack
the social connections of the Ivy League
class, but they're still at a higher
level than the middle class. This is
probably the$1 to $200,000 a year
corporate professional job. The Ivy
League classes are probably in income
terms $200,000 $200 to $500,000 a year
managerial jobs or maybe even a little
higher than that nowadays.
These are not solely determined on
income, but I'm using that to help paint
a picture. Institutional professional
class's job is to provide the
professional services needed for their
establishment elite and Ivy League class
clients.
That's really their role to help manage
the middle and clerical classes.
The other side is the more independent
rebellious path that leads to the
counter elite. You have the independent
professional class. These are people who
did not really go through the
traditional
path like they didn't go to the
prestigious universities. Some may have
not even gone to college,
but they've managed to build a nice
niche. A lot of these people are in
emerging industries. The left side is
more people who work at big corporations
and have the resumes and the willingness
to conform to fit into those. Right
column are more people who figure out a
way to make themselves get ahead.
Anyway, these people can be business
owners who are emerging on their way to
success. They make the income similar to
the institution professional class but
they do it as an independent business
owner or contractor. People work for
small businesses providing a valuable
service. They are people who are not
aligned with the institutions and were
either excluded for certain reasons or
chose a different path. These are mostly
emerging entrepreneurs. I think the
differentiation for class is not
necessarily how much money you make.
It's more how you make your money and
how much you have left over. So I base
it basically on how much money you have
left over after expenses.
And the left and the right is really
just how tied you are to the established
social order and
political cultural elite for your
livelihood. for the people on the left
side of this pyramid are more tied to
them. The people on the right are more
anti-fragile.
And the next level successful business
owners like people who have been able to
build a business that is self-
sustaining to the point that they'll
never have to go back into the
institutional ladder and they can make
the same income level as the Ivy League
class without having to go up the
corporate ladder. That's what I would
put in the successful business owners
category.
Then the counter elite are people who
have reached the same level of
establishment wealth without being part
of their social circle for various
reasons. Maybe they just didn't get
along with them or didn't share the same
values. Like a lot of immigrant families
who become wealthy end up in the counter
elite for this reason. Also, it could
just be a cultural or political
difference. Historically, you would see
establishment and counter elites on both
sides of the political aisle. The
election of 2016
has shifted the political dynamic with
the institutional wing now being more
left and the counter elite being more
right. That has rarely been the case in
American history. You've had people on
both sides of the political aisle in
each category and still do. The increase
in polarization
is a lot of it. If you do something in
the establishment elite that is not well
regarded, it makes you a pariah,
disliked, like being cancelled. You can
get kicked out and still have your
wealth and power. You still have your
financial wealth and may not have to
work anymore. You're still in the elite,
but you've become the counter elite. The
main difference between the
establishment elite and the counter
elite is the establishment elite
disproportionate influence in terms of
political and social power outside of
just purely money. Whereas the counter
elite really only has money and lacks
institutional and cultural power. The
internet has changed that. The counter
elite can do independent platforms that
are separate from the establishment
elite.
However, somebody becomes successful
enough, they integrate into the
establishment elite. Every major
corporation and university going woke is
because that's what the establishment
elite wants them to do. It's a signal
that I'm part of the establishment elite
or on the institutional ladder. That's
what all this is about. In the olden
days, I mean, that was converting to
Protestantism.
Nowadays it can mean different things in
different eras but there are certain
signals that say I'm either part of the
institutional pyramid or the rebellious
pyramid. Major changes in the political
and social culture in American history
happen when the counter elite gathers
enough resources
and unites the lower parts of the
pyramid to knock off the establishment
elite and become the new counter. they
fail, then there's usually significant
legal, political, and financial
consequences to the failure.
But when you have a real major change in
a country's society and culture that has
this type of hierarchy, it's when the
counter elite knocks off the
establishment elite. This one has gone
on so long. I was originally going to do
these in a single video, but instead I'm
just going to do a separate video for
each one of these class hierarchies
because
there's a lot to this. Let me know if
you have any questions. Again, this is
me trying to put in something that I see
in the world via intuition into a
readable chart. What are your thoughts
on the American class hierarchy? Am I
right that it's really just a battle
between those who are on the
establishment ladder versus the counter
elite ladder and the differentiator is
not necessarily your education and your
income but more of how you make your
money, how much you have left over and
what kind of freedom you have because of
that. Notice although others thing I did
not mention anything on race or
ethnicity or religion or gender because
those don't really matter on this. All
of those are used as weapons for the
establishment elite and the counter
elite to fight each other.
And that's the whole point I'm trying to
get at. Our modern political
polarization is really just the counter
elite and the establishment elite
fighting over who gets to control the
country. The establishment elite feels
at risk that their position is not as
secure as it used to be and so a lot of
it is lashing out. If people understood
that this is the way the system works,
there would be a lot less
division. The goal of a lot of these
controversial issues to maintain
division, economic balance is to get the
bottom tiers to fight against each other
so they don't realize they are being
played by both the establishment elite
and the counter elite. I call it the
European class hierarchy, but this
generally applies to
developed oldw world countries.
That would also probably include Japan
and possibly Canada. Canada is probably
a hybrid between this and the American
class hierarchy,
whereas Australia and New Zealand are
probably closer to the American class
hierarchy model. People ask me about
where the UK fits in this because it has
some elements of the American class
hierarchy and it's kind of the root of
modern American culture to a certain
extent and parts of the European
hierarchy. But at this point, especially
in the postclment at development of the
welfare state and the surrender of their
empire, the UK is definitely more I
would consider in the European class
hierarchy. There are some people in the
city of London and in finance who have
been able to show social mobility and
move from more humble backgrounds to
prosperity, but they are kind of more
the exceptions that prove the rule. The
class system in the UK is just as rigid,
if not more rigid, than many parts of
the continent. Europe, this really kind
of describes Europe, where everybody
thinks Europe's the most ealitarian
place in the world.
They don't have a restrictive class
structure.
That gets all that was all the old days
before the revolutions and the world
wars. Oh no, but really what the
European elites did starting with
Autovon Bismar who was hardly a leftwing
radical. He's known for being a
conservative, but he is the one who
brought in the German welfare state and
was the first European power to really
give generous social programs. What they
did is that they were using the wealth
and prosperity they gained from empire
and economic advancement
to buy off their lower classes and make
them content enough not to challenge the
established order.
And this expanded after the second world
war where the solar for welfare state
expanded even more.
And they did this along with having some
of the steepest and highest tax rates in
the world on income to basically create
one giant lower middle class.
The old money continues to really rule
things behind the scenes. There's really
three main tiers and I size these
buckets accordingly based on
proportionate to how much of a size they
are except for the circles. I had to
make them a minimum size to fit the
words in. The underclass living off the
state at the bottom. Europe has a
generous social welfare system and some
people just can't produce enough basic
work to cover themselves or immigrants
who are unable to assimilate. The
unemployment rates are higher in these
countries due to their priorities for
social stability or economic growth and
they tend to have tough hiring and
firing laws which leads some people to
not be able to participate. So they live
off the generosity of the state. They're
still a pretty small number. The vast
majority of Europe, I would put in the
lower middle class.
And what I mean by the lower middle
class is that they make enough money to
be comfortable and survive, but they are
not really able to get ahead financially
in any meaningful sort of way in terms
of through assets or being able to build
a businesses independent of the
corporate and governments that hire
these class of people. European GDP per
per capita in most countries is less
than half that of the average American
nowadays.
If you met Europeans who live in Europe
outside of those who are wellto-do or
live in well-run countries such as
Switzerland, you would be surprised how
low their living standard is compared to
the typical suburban American. You don't
see any of these people driving big SUVs
or pickup trucks in Europe. A lot of
people still hang dry their clothes,
live in small apartments, and they don't
have a lot of the creature comforts that
we take for granted here in American
suburbia.
Some people like that, but that's the
cost of having everybody at a similar
level and a single
lower middle class. The high taxes
and the generous welfare state really
distenivizes
people to climb up and also
disincentivize savings. According to
credit Swiss, the median Chinese citizen
has more savings than the median
European even though the Chinese income
is about a fourth of that of Western
Europe. The reason for that is because
of things such as the government paying
for health care, education, and
retirement means that European consumers
really have less propensity or need to
save or at least they feel that way.
The next level above that is the
managerial class. The managerial class
will have higher incomes than the lower
middle class, but not high enough that
their lifestyle is completely
disconnected
from the vast majority of Europeans.
Not enough that they can just retire at
40 and chill out. These are the people
who are higher level government
bureaucrats or executives at European
multinational corporations.
And then the only way any of these
people in this box can move up beyond
the lower middle class box is through
political action and running for office.
Like similar oldw world regimes in the
feudal system. The only way to move up
was through political revolution and
violence. That's why the feudal system
failed because there was no room for
social mobility. The old money in Europe
doesn't like social mobility. They never
have and they never will. But at the
same time, they know if they mismanage
things bad enough,
they will risk getting overthrown by
revolution like what happened in the
18th and 19th centuries.
The way that they've adjusted for that
is to at least on paper
cater to the egalitarian
impulse that is common in Western
Europe. I used to not understand why
Europe cared so much more about social
stability and the tall poppy syndrome
than America did. There was their
history of violence through war and
revolution that took a lot of the
risk-taking capacity out of the region.
Also, a lot of the more enterprising
people moved to the Americas and a lot
of this welfare state was developed as
an enticement to prevent their
population from moving to America.
Instead of getting welfare, they had
either free lands, the Homestead Act, or
just more economic opportunity due to
the dynamic economic growth going on in
America.
The other thing
that really drives this is because they
know inherently that their systems are
not fair. Whether in the feudal class or
onsean regime, there's always some old
money elites
and
the politicians that they supported or
were part of. There was no chance no
matter how hard they worked and even
some of the wealthy merchants of the
time who maybe had as much cash as the
nobility would never have the same
social status. So they're like why we
want to get rid of all that because
if these people don't deserve to be
above us, why does anybody deserve to
live above the mass? And so I think
that's a lot of that attitude came from
was just seeing these people who through
birth and entitlement have been ruling
over them for centuries be put in their
place. The remaining old money has
adapted to that. They like progressive.
The old money likes this arrangement too
because the high progressive taxes limit
competition like Europe's
economic system of high taxes and
more difficulties in terms of barriers
to entry for entrepreneurship and
business competition.
play their established interests keeping
their established interest.
And the other also prevents people from
challenging the existing wealthy's
status through barging in with new
money.
And that is why they like this system
the way it is. It prevents new people
from going in. It also takes the social
scrutiny off of them. And that's why a
lot of these European income inequality
statistics are so warped because a lot
of these old money people earn their
money well before the era of progressive
taxation and high inheritance taxes and
they make their money either through
exemptions to that stuff or just through
collecting residuals on family held land
or businesses that go back centuries.
The Heineken brand is owned by a company
in the Netherlands that goes back to the
18th century.
Most of central London is owned by the
same families that owned it during
William the Conqueror's time in the 11th
century.
But you really don't hear about that.
That's who the rich are in Europe. The
same people who were rich 600 years ago,
even after a spat of revolutions. The
only ones who really lost it were the
countries that went full communist. To
prevent that from happening, the elites
decided to give a little bit in terms of
being a more generous welfare state. And
in exchange, they get social stability,
not enough people threatening their
lives or their status, and also higher
barriers of entry to prevent new money
from deflating them on top of the
hierarchy. The only way you can make it
into that established old money class is
to move up in the ranks in politics. If
you're a successful politician
in the modern era, your family and
descendants can be part of the
establishment. And an example would be
the Bonaparts
in the 19th century. And Napoleon was
from a relatively poor family in
Corsica, but through his military and
political accomplishments,
not didn't just bring up himself, but
his entire family into up into French
society. and now they are considered de
facto nobility. Examples would also be
descendants of other prominent political
leaders throughout
Europe. The bottom part is just the most
obvious one. So that's really the case
of Europe. It's not like Europe is just
this ealitarian wonderland where
everybody is equally middle class and
prosperous. No, you have an
overwhelmingly large lower middle class.
You've
used the tax revenue you collected from
them to keep the poor
down while preventing new wealth from
competing with old established
interests. So the rich get what they
want, less competition and less social
scrutiny. The rest of the group gets
what they want by pleasing their tall
poppy syndrome and ensuring that they
have a social safety. I go into
elaboration on this in the American
dream versus the European dream video I
did several months ago. And if you want
to build a society based on that, this
is the way it works. When you look at it
this way, it makes more sense why the
things people think about Europe are a
modern misconception. And a lot of it is
just an extension of the old system with
what I call revolution insurance.
We're going to continue this old money
series on class hierarchies
with authoritarian regimes and how class
hierarchy works and modern authoritarian
regimes such as China, Russia, and then
the Saudi royal family. We did our last
one about America and that kind of got a
little bit iceberg real quick. So, I
wouldn't really be surprised if this one
did, too. Before I get into this, this
is a disclosure. This is a theory, not a
hardline fact on class structures around
the world. Social pyramids across
society differ in significant ways and
change over time, especially with these
because authoritarian regimes are only
authoritarian. This hierarchy may
explain Spain during the Franco era, but
it would not really explain the
hierarchy in Spain today because it's no
longer an authoritarian regime.
This explains
what Venezuela is like now, but it does
not explain what it was 20 years ago.
So, let's look at the authoritarian
regimes. Actually, a lot similar to the
America chart in the shape that it's a
dual pyramid structure.
However, what's really different is the
segments within the dual pyramid
structure and how one of the segments is
cut off before it plateaus. But let's
start at the bottom and work our way up.
The bottom is the underclass since a lot
of these regimes don't have the wealth
to provide the generous social benefits
that the United States and other
developed economies do. These people
just participate outside the formal
economy. Whether that's due to
subsistence farming, black market
activities, or whatever. They find some
way to survive without participating in
the formal economy. And some of the more
wealthy authoritarian regimes, they
could also be wards of the state. The
next level is the working class.
The working class are similar to the
working class in the United States
except they have a lower base standard
of living. In an emerging market
country, somebody makes $10 a day
whereas somebody class United States
makes $10 to $20 an hour. So, it's a
very different living standard as a
result. But these people have some
disposable income, are in the formal
economy, pay taxes, and have some stake
in the system. Maintaining control over
this group is key to keeping the
authoritarian regime alive. If enough
people get angry and challenge the
regime, it triggers the civil unrest to
topple the order. Professional classes
can rise from the working class through
education or entrepreneurial dynamism.
There are two sides to this. the
independent professional class or people
who do it without participating in
politics or
working for the government and who do it
through connections to the ruling party.
This includes working for the government
as a bureaucrat, having a business that
primarily serves the government or using
connections within the regime to
establish one's livelihood.
Then the next level up on the
establishment period is the
well-connected wealthy.
In theory, you could move up the next
generation. If the party connected
professional class moves up the ranks
and is successful enough, they may be
able to get control of the permitting
rights for a certain industry. And their
next generation can be the
well-connected wealthy. These are
friends of the party leaders or family
members. For example, in China, if you
were the head of the Department of Motor
Vehicles for Beijing and you're in
charge of giving out licenses to
Mercedes-Benz dealerships and all of
greater Beijing, since you can't profit
off that yourself because that would be
corruption and graft, you can give the
license to your nephew or niece in
exchange that they will get very wealthy
on it and support you and your older for
years to ensure you're comfortable for
doing them the favor.
Most of the wealthy in these
authoritarian regimes did not get there
just based on hard work and grit. Uh
they got there generally through
being connected to the government and
getting some sort of deal to operate in
an uncompetitive way.
There's no old money in the
authoritarian regimes because
old money was often tied to the previous
regime and therefore they are a threat
to the current regime's legitimacy. So
these people either have to flee their
country or they are killed. That is why
like in the American example the old
money is in the establishment and leave.
But the authoritarian regime they just
don't exist. They were killed off during
regime chain.
The then the top is the leadership of
the party, the people who run the
authoritarian regime.
For the independent professional class,
if one of them tries to rise beyond just
being independent professional, they are
flagged as a challenger by the party
leaders. This is an example of what
happened in China with their crackdown
on a lot of the big tech companies. The
party leadership didn't like seeing
private citizens having more wealth or
social influence than the party. So the
party cut them down and showed them
who's boss. And this is generally what
happens in these regimes. If somebody
gets in wealth or influence
independently of
the regime's infrastructure, the regime
will use the legal system or violent
force to take them out or try to bribe
them to integrate. That's why I see all
the challenger like a green circle with
a sword stuck through it. If anybody
gets big enough to be a challenger,
they'll be dealt with. They'll be sent
back down to the working class. no
longer on this earth or be integrated
into the parties. The authoritarian
regime model works because they take out
the challengers before they get too big.
A real threat is if a foreign government
backs a challenger or the challenger
somehow manages to not be taken down and
fight through the system.
Then they can break through and knock
off the leaders of the authoritarian
regime, often becoming the leaders of a
new authoritarian regime
or transitioning to a more democratic
society. Examples of this would be color
revolutions in a lot of these
authoritarian countries. A more happy
example could be Nelson Mandela in South
Africa. With the help of foreign
support, he was able to become a
challenger.
That is kind of the way authoritarian
regimes are structured. A lot of their
power is based on force or threat of
force. The military is often in the
ranks of party leaders and the
well-connected wealthy have a
disproportionate amount of military
veterans. That is why when these regimes
get in trouble, they're often face
military coups
to help stabilize things. An example
would be the Shinawatra controversy in
Thailand. Even though Thailand's not
completely an authoritarian regime,
there are some authoritarian elements to
it. If you like this type of content,
like and subscribe and share with your
friends. Thanks for watching. Emerging
markets are relatively democratic
societies that are not at the level of
development of an OECD country or a
developed economy, which my definition
is a country that has a GV per capita of
more than $35,000
USD in 2022.
The emerging market class systems
similar to the authoritarian regime have
limited social mobility. In the
authoritarian regime, there probably is
more social mobility because you can
move up through participating
in the power structure of the
authoritarian regime, whether through
the political party of the one party
state or the military.
Whereas with these emerging market class
systems,
it in a more democratic society, it's
actually a lot more stratified. And
there are three main groups. There is
the underclass, the middle class, and
old money.
You could have like an oval off the
screen that surrounds all this, which
would be politicians.
There are politicians at different
levels who could come from each one of
the classes. And if the politicians play
their cards right, have the right
balance between corruption,
effectiveness, and likability, they may
be able to build enough of a fortune to
move up into the class or move their
kids into the old money class.
So, let's start with the bottom, the
underclass. And really, the definition,
the underclass, it's just people who do
not participate in the formal economy
and live a subsistence lifestyle.
because it's farmers, people work in
black market or under the table type
labor. They are generally illiterate or
not educated enough to really
participate in the formal economy
and they don't really have any sort of
capital or voice in the system whether
financial or through human capital or
through electoral power other than being
easily manipulated by the political
parties run by the old money. They don't
really have enough power to actually
change the class structure.
The next level is the middle class. In
these emerging markets, similar to
authoritarian regimes, middle class is a
very loosely defined term. So far,
the middle classes are basically those
who participate in the formal economy
and have some sort of disposable income.
You have the lower middle class which is
more workingass
profession like factory work or lower
level service jobs or the tourist
industry and you have the educated
middle class which do clerical and
professional type jobs that they have
college degrees and higher ed level
education.
And then the top tier, these people,
they'll have enough to retire and have a
somewhat comfortable life, but neither
of these two, which is why they're in
the same trapezoid, have a chance to
break into the rich tier. Uh there's not
the same level of competition so that
upstart entrepreneurs can displace the
old money hierarchy. It's just not
allowed. The top is the old money,
depending on whether their country had a
communist revolution or not or how
geopolitically stable it's been could
date back centuries. The point being is
that these are the same families who own
all the businesses. They're either the
ones who run for office or they're the
ones who basically buy off a
enterprising political entrepreneur and
one of the lower classes and completely
control them.
A lot of people think that America and
developed countries are structured like
this, but I think that those people
probably have not spent enough time
living or learning about how the world
works in the real stratified societies.
And this is more of how emerging markets
work. It's not a coincidence that the
same families who are wealthy in a
country in Latin America, for example,
are generally the same ones who were
wealthy 100 years ago.
That does not really change. The only
thing that could fix this is if you have
more economic growth, but not just more
economic growth, but reforms that allow
for more upstart competition.
And that's really the step that allows
somebody to move out of the middle
income trap. The problem is that the old
money establishment types don't like
competition and so they will not ever
allow those reforms and that's why a lot
of these countries get stuck in this
type of pyramid. The only real developed
country that kind of
has a pyramid like this would be South
Korea. They have the shable who control
most of the industries and the big chunk
of the economy and have a
disproportionate amount of influence in
the politics. But the standard of living
is high enough that the people in the
educated and middle classes are more
satisfied and have a more vibrant
consumer society. And what makes South
Korea different than less developed
emerging market class systems is that
the underclass trapezoid would be a lot
smaller
or almost entirely non-existent and the
formal economy would be a lot bigger.
They were able to get a vast majority of
their population into the formal economy
without breaking down the protections of
their old money. However, for them to
really take to the next level, they're
going to have to allow more competition,
the old money. And that's kind of a lot
of the controversy in Korean politics to
this day is around balancing the tension
between the old money and the middle
classes
and we'll see how it goes. So, this in
general is how emerging market class
system works. I think it's more
important this time to zoom out and just
explain really just the history of class
warfare and what is class warfare going
to look like in the 21st century and why
recent technological developments are
going to drastically shift how the class
hierarchy is constructed all over the
world. In the preodern era the class
structure was pretty simple. You had an
old money ruling class who had gained
their position by force, usually
conquest. You had an enforcer class. In
the example, this would be like knights
in the medieval era. And the job of the
enforcer class is really to hold down
the vast majority of the population
which were either in the slave class or
the peasants or surfs or whatever you
want to call them. But they're the
people who were either undercompensated
or not compensated at all to do the bulk
of the work that kept the economy and
the food supply growing. And then you
had free citizens which I guess the
closest thing to this would be the
middle class in today's society or
people who were not tied to a piece of
land or to the debts of the wealthy.
They usually skilled artisans or proto
profofessional jobs or the clergy or
others who just weren't really tied to
the previous system but still
participated in the system and had
relative autonomy. Their numbers were
very small and they were so far away
from the halls of power that they really
didn't have a chance to move up. And in
honesty, since they just were less
organized and communication technology
was limited, you had a lot of rogues
outside the system, whether it was just
bandits or marauders or traveling
salesmen or whatever. They just didn't
really participate in the classic class
structure, nomadic peoples and they even
they're in the periphery of the
civilization and they kind of just lived
outside the system. They could cause
disruptions in the short term through
violent interference with the
civilization but they were either in the
long run they're assimilated in or
pushed aside and that's really how up
until basically the French Revolution
how most class structures worked across
the world. Then you started to have
revolutions where due to the advancement
in weapons technology and literacy, the
lower classes had more access to power
and more direct ways to threaten the
established elite, especially violently.
And so as a result, this old preodern
structure fell apart. And what
effectively replaced it was one of two
solutions. First, you had more class
warfare between the lower classes where
you had the elites split into two sides.
And you would have one align their
interests with the middle class and one
side of elites align themselves with the
working and lower classes. and and this
class conflict between the middle class
and the working class allowed these
groups to fight amongst each other and
distract the fact that the hierarchy
still remains relatively intact. This is
kind of how the American social
hierarchy work I would say from the
American Revolution up until the fall of
the Berlin wall. The old world on the
other hand either stayed in the preoder
framework or switched to either the
authoritarian framework which I
discussed in a previous video or the
European style class hierarchy which I
also discussed in a previous video which
basically used a combination of high
progressive taxation and a high social
safety net to create a relatively high
floor of standard of living to pacify
most of the population into a very large
lower middle class that lives
comfortably and is generally satisfied
with their lives but at the same time
really has no means to move up in the
elite. Some emerging markets who are in
the process of democratizing are kind of
in a transitional phase between the
preodern class model and the American or
European class models and they're kind
of ironing out the challenges of that
and I did a video about that one too.
However, really the thing that's the
gamecher that's going to change all of
these is the development of robotics and
AI technology that has really started to
accelerate starting with the release of
chat GBT at the end of two December 2022
and the development of mobile Aloha by
Google on the humanoid robot side to do
a lot of physical domestic and other
types of physical labor that's going to
be replaced by machines. And the thing
is is that what makes this a game
changer is not necessarily that the
robots are going to immediately replace
everybody and that there not could not
be other possibly jobs created like such
example people to maintain the robots.
However, there now is a path to do that
very thing. And if you are the old money
and the upper tiers of the system and
you do not need people anymore
who do the work and keep the economy
running and all of your goods and
services operating, then the
relationship between the classes changes
drastically. The main issue that the old
money and the established elite are
always afraid of is being overthrown by
the lower classes. However, they still
need the lower classes because who's
going to do the work that keeps society
running? And so this tension whether to
to maintain position versus keeping the
lower classes satisfied enough that they
do not rebel and still participate in
the system is the balancing act that
societies have had to do really since
agriculture created settled societies.
Now however with technology off can
replace both the white collar middle
classes and the working classes that do
more physical work that social contract
and that balancing act no longer needs
to be balanced within a few generations.
You can replace most of the work. You
may not be able to replace everything
and you'll still need people to innovate
in advance. But if you want to have a
stable society with no threat of
rebellion, you get rid of that threat by
replacing all the people with machines.
But it will be a stepbystep
basis. Like it's not going to be
overnight. Let's say the first
generation, let's 20 years from now when
you have AI and robotics get to a
competent level. What would the class
structure eventually evolve in? The
first step would be just the removal of
mobility. That's why there's more gaps
in these charts than the previous ones.
You will have the old money and the
politicians still at the top like the
European model. However, instead of the
lower middle class, you're going to have
the dependent class which are people
whose jobs have been disrupted away from
robotics and AI. And then you have the
bottom of the hierarchy which will be
the robots and the AI doing all the
work. The dependent class will be
collecting a portion of the economy
whether it's through machine taxes or
income taxes on the elites to pay for
the subsistence of the dependent class
and through event and and that is really
how would be in the first generation.
you geek them comfortable enough again
not to rebel. But given the fact that
most economic opportunity is really
going to not be there, it's hard to get
on the ladder if every entry- level job
is done by a machine. And eventually, as
AI develops, most advanced jobs will
also be done by the machine. So really,
if you're a business owner, you'll have
AI doing most of your what you need to
do. You just have to sign a few things
on docy sign every day and that will
allow the old money to live their lives
at leisure while at the same time having
a more direct control and operation of
the means of production that then you
have to look into the next one the the
end generation if you just keeps going
you're going to basically have the
dependent class is basically going to go
extinct I mean however there's not going
to everybody's going to participate in
this there will be rogues outside the
system who either build their own
independent communities or just kind of
drift around but are not large enough in
members to threaten the existing
hierarchy. I mean, this is going to take
several generations. And if you look at
current demographic trends and
technological advancement, this is
really the scenario that you could
eventually get. And the thing is that's
scary is it looks very similar to the
preodern hierarchy that I mentioned
before, except without the enforcers,
because you won't really need to have
physical enforcers to enforce the
robots. they will do what they're
supposed to do via hard-coded
instructions. So, am I saying that AI in
20 years is going to basically turn
everybody into welfare dependents and
gradually die out? No. This is probably
going to be a 200-year process. However,
if I was the old money and if my goal
was to maintain power and eliminate
challenges yet still maintain my life of
luxury, the best way to do that is not
to continue the class conflict. The way
to win the class war is to replace the
lower classes with technology and make
them obsolete and so and out competed by
technological selection for a lack of a
better term. I know it sounds a little
bit crazy but that could be the end game
and that is the the dark side possibly
of the advancement of AI technology.
Those who are in the counter classes and
the challenger classes are going to be
increasingly challenged on how to stay
relevant. And if they can stay relevant
in other ways or eyes development is a
lot further away than many people
anticipate. Instead of this being a 1
to200year process, this could be a 3 to
500year process or maybe some other
game-changing technology such as space
travel or other major innovations that
will provide a role for people beyond
what the AI can do. The implications are
staggering. And the other really thing
is, let's just say, what if the
technology becomes like any other
enforcer class and eventually rebelss
against the old money masters? Maybe
that's why we haven't really had contact
with Alien Light. Those are my thoughts
on this. Let me know what you think. Is
AI really going to be the nail in the
coffin that kills the middle and lower
classes? Is it going to be the killer
app that ultimately allows old money and
established elites to win the millennial
long class war? or there's some elements
that I'm missing or that or a hidden
weapon that the counter elites and the
challenger classes can do to take back
control of the post AI economy. Like,
subscribe, share. If you disagree,
please leave a comment. Disagree, also
leave a comment. And thank you for
watching.